# Mapping-Plasma-Metabolic-Signatures-to-Brain-Structure-and-Brain-Disorders
Metabolic processes are fundamental to brain homeostasis and metabolic dysregulation can cause brain structural alterations and brain disorders. However, the mechanistic pathways connecting metabolic dysregulation to brain disorders via structural changes remain unclear. Here, we provided a metabolite-brain structure atlas by examining the associations between 313 plasma metabolites and 272 neuroimaging-derived brain structural measures. A total of 1,215 significant associations between plasma metabolites and brain structure measures were identified in the discovery cohort of 25,846 participants. Of these, 967 associations were validated in the replication cohort of 10,985 participants. Cortical thickness and volume, particularly in the superior parietal cortex, exhibited the strongest associations with plasma lipoproteins and lipids. Mendelian randomization provided evidence of 153 potential causal associations, with the majority lipoproteins and lipids related to cortical volume. Furthermore, mediation analysis indicated that cortical volume predominantly mediated the association between plasma metabolites and brain disorders, with a maximum mediation proportion of 12.29%. Moreover, we identified the genetic risk of lipoproteins and lipids, as well as the modifiable environmental factors such as physical environment, diet and physical activity that influence brain disorders through their impact on metabolites and brain structure. Finally, 13 candidate drug targets were prioritized for modulating metabolites to treat multiple brain disorders by integrating multi-omics analysis. Collectively, our work delineates the metabolic signatures associated with brain structure and their implications in brain disorders, clarifying the genetic and environmental contributions, ultimately advancing targeted interventions for brain disorders.

[fig1.tif](https://github.com/user-attachments/files/22209308/fig1.tif)
